As well.
And some companies have this challenge to
hand over the data into the construction
phase.
So I think that's some kind of
requirement. How important is it?
I'm not too sure.
Um.
But yeah,
we we should like keep a note of that.
I think it's it could come up.
I mean we should build this in a way
which is, you know,
future proof for that scenario.
Mm.
The other thing that came up with the
architecture GBA was.
They said, you know,
they do the architecture,
but then they use other parts of Rambo
for the structure or the MEP.
And sometimes they it doesn't need to be
Rambo, they will use Arup even.
So I wonder if this is less important,
but you know some of these big mega
projects will be executed.
With other partners.
So just like Aviva projects,
Mm.
you need this ability to talk and
exchange with the other, you know,
engineering contractors as well.
Yeah,
I think that's that's something that can
happen that we are being dictated.
You know,
Mhm.
we have to use this system because of a
partner or a client. So that's a really,
really good thing to have in mind.
We don't have full control of the
environment.
Yeah.
Always.
Another idea that I keep in mind that
regards master data management.
I don't know if it's also should be
presented on the what what section,
but the idea that we can integrate all
our.
Reference data into common database and
then reuse it for our projects. Yeah,
but it's some kind of, I don't know.
Yeah,
reference database for extract and
collect our.
Best practices and and our reference data.
Wicker materials, piping materials,
Mm.
fluids.
And another information that we have
select a legacy from the previous
projects,
but we can reuse it in the future or
maybe we can review it and consider this
as a part of our best practices or
something like that. So that's.
I think all all all these topics are are
relevant and we should, you know,
take a note of them.
It could be that some of them are more
relevant for individual GPAS and maybe
they already have some process or some
tooling.
In in the in place. Um.
I I think this is so the the reason I
need to be a bit careful is the UPE could
do everything in my mind, you know,
should do everything.
But I think some GBAs will argue why are
we paying for that? You know,
we manage our materials or our standards
perfectly well. We don't, we don't.
Don't need another, you know,
another thing on top,
Hmm.
even if they maybe don't manage it in the
most data centric way.
Yeah.
But they will claim, you know,
we have this already.
Mm.
It's a working process.
We don't need because I don't know if
they will have to pay for this yet,
but at some point we might start asking
them to pay for it, you know?
Yeah, definitely, but.
So.
Yeah.
Typical uh setup.
And maybe one philosophic question from
your perspective and your understanding
Yeah.
point of view,
how it should work in principle?
Is it kind of platform?
Or web application or or I don't know
some central database that project people.
I mean that project team from transport
or from energy can use for initiate new
project for instance I am energy.
Guy from substation project, yeah,
and I know that for this kind of projects
I always using the same naming rules or
same workflows and et cetera, et cetera,
these kind of things.
How it will work in principle? Yeah,
I just will open the, I don't know,
portfolio with the list of types of the
projects.
Will click on the interface that I want
to initiate new project.
Then I will initiate this project and all
connected templates, reports, workflows.
To be automatically deployed for my
project in SharePoint teams as a Kanban
board. I don't know,
it's just like examples here.
I also will automatically deploy Aviva
database template project.
Maybe Revits and and this IC structure
and etcetera. So what do you think?
How it should work?
Just maybe we can also based on this we
can understand what we should include in
the scope.
Uh, because that's.
Yeah, I.
It's a very good question. Yeah,
I think the maybe the most basic.
Worm is, yeah,
some kind of web interface portal you go
to you.
It has this basic data model that we
talked about last time.
You know what what's a project,
what are the disciplines,
what are the geographical areas,
what are the standards associated with it?
So some kind of data model there.
And you say make a new project, it knows.
Then you know behind the scenes it knows
what databases, what CDE,
what repositories, what tools to set up.
That was my that was my initial thought,
you know,
No.
some kind of web interface to kind of
kick things off.
Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm. Yeah.
And maybe this web interface needs to be.
It needs to be built in a way that
there's something good in there that
forces you, not forces you,
but encourages you to use this.
Anytime you're doing any work,
so let's say you want to start the day's
Hmm.
work,
you go into the UPE dashboard and it says
OK,
you're working on this work package or
whatever task it is,
and then you from there you fire off
Mhm.
Revit or Aviva or whatever.
Um, but I was.
I was also having a little bit of this.
A little bit not mature thought like
maybe does that change and become more
like an agent that's running all the time
and knows what you're what you're doing,
what you're working on and it becomes
like less more like this invisible
computing.
Type of concept where it's not in your
face,
but I think the practical thing to do is,
you know, some kind of.
Dashboard tool that you log into in the
morning and it's it guides you and you
have it, you know,
running on the on the on the background
and something more like that I think is
the practical thing to build.
David,
did you work with the the soul to the
experience platform before?
Because what you are talking about,
Yeah, I did. I did, yeah.
it's very similar for the 2D experience
concept that you have widgets.
Yeah.
In the web interface and you can
customize it based on the type of the
your project and then you can click on
the dashboard with the plannings,
dashboard with the connect connected to
the cut tools dashboard to the connected
documents and then you can navigate to
the specific engineering tools document.
Management system planning to and do your
real daily work here.
That's I think that it's very similar to
the or another system concept.
You have common entry point,
you can control the metrics of the
project, you can and you can predefine it.
You have a predefined.
Define the templates of your I would say
widgets and and your instruments that you
are using on daily basis.
So exactly what you need to use this this
Yeah, we we should definitely look,
look at that. Have you seen that, Olivier?
day for and let's understand.
No, I haven't.
Not sure what we are discussing.
It's I I was there.
I'll try to find some video for you cause
I was there from the beginning when they
developed this thing and the first
version was very different they they
because it's a very 3D orientated company.
Mhm.
They believed the entry point to the work
should be the 3D model, right?
Which wasn't a bad idea.
So they developed a nice rendering
Um.
technology. You open the model in like a,
you know, Navis works like a cache mode,
very lightweight model,
and then you went into your job. But then.
In the process industry,
they realized when you're doing diagrams
and system design, you don't have 3D,
right? Like a lot of the work is just 2D,
Yeah.
So you create a dependency on like things
that you don't need.
so.
Yeah, so they they changed the paradigm.
So in the beginning it was the 3D model
as the entry point and then they kind of
changed it into like a record player,
this rotating disk and you had like they
use this thing, functional, logical.
Physical something else.
It's like systems engineering approach.
So you start with requirements,
then you do functional design,
Hmm.
logical design, physical design, mechanic,
whatever it was.
So that's actually not too bad a paradigm
like the systems engineering approach.
Hmm.
Start from requirements,
then you have functional design.
Design, then detailed design,
then construction design, whatever.
But yeah,
that's how they stopped when I was there.
They basically stopped and I think now 3D
experience,
Mm.
we'll probably find some video Andrei,
which is like more.
Yeah,
LinkedIn to everything these days like
document management system, PLM, um,
simulation, so.
Yeah, it's a trip. Yeah, yeah.
What is this called?
This is 3D experience is is their naming
for this and they know it's access to all
their hundreds of applications behind the
scenes.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
But it's it's typical clunky,
the so sort of.
Not I was going to say French,
but French in the way that Charles de
Um.
Gaulle Terminal One is, you know, special.
Ha ha.
Yeah.
Yeah, but As for me,
this is really comprehensive solution.
Yeah, from 1 aspect,
but at the same time it's very flexible
and what I really like,
I worked in the source system.
Many years ago, but yeah, yeah,
that's I I know internal kitchen,
Yeah.
but that what's what I observed that
actually you can customise the user
interface as per.
Rows you you have a matrix of the rows
for the project for the for for the
Hmm.
template and you can define that for this
for for engineer we need to represent 3D
model viewer with a connected PBS or GPS.
You can also connect documents.
List of MDR for instance,
master document register and and
properties and etcetera etcetera.
So for project manager it's not make
sense to have this detailed engineers
engineering deliverables widgets but you
need to have.
Chart. I forget the name of this.
It's Gantt. Gantt's chart. Yeah, yeah,
The project plan, the Power BI stuff.
Yeah, Gantt charts.
yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
This kind of things.
And then you can identify what is
important for for which kind of users.
And then by default if you will
authorized in this system,
you will see exactly what is relevant for
you and then you can track your metrics
And.
or your specific.
Deliverables.
So here and and and yeah that's also part
of the through the experience but it they
they they have some kind of it's a
compass I I think I believe they use this
yeah yeah yeah that that's just to switch
Yeah, they call it.
to different kind of tools you can.
Select 3D model tools.
You can select documents,
document management tools and et cetera,
et cetera. But it's a.
So is this is this a launcher type of
application like where you start?
It's like the the sort of a homepage for
a engineer and then you you launch the
Bing.
different applications from there.
Is that kind of the idea of this what
Some something like, yeah, something like,
but actually most of the applications are
we're looking at or?
integrated into this platform.
It's a it's all web widgets and web
Mm.
applications.
They have a CATIA,
they have a SolidWorks as a separate
Mm.
tools and this is for sure you need to
install as a desktop application. Yeah,
but for widgets for viewers,
it's fully integrated into web.
Mm.
I mean.
So it's not different. Yeah, Yep.
I think their strategy was to make,
you know,
Katia into a web app as well or or maybe
Solidworks. They start with that, but.
Mm.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I think so. I think so.
Yeah.
I don't know exactly the status here.
Right.
I think this is interesting because for
does so.
I don't know how much you know about them,
Olivier,
but they they try to have like everything.
They they try to have like really,
A little bit.
really the the mother of all platforms.
So you never need to leave their
Mm.
ecosystem.
And I think they do have most parts,
you know, they acquired, who was it?
Ansys, they, you know,
they they have two or three mechanical
design tools,
two or three product lifecycle management
Mm.
tools, simulation,
you know they they they try to keep you
inside their ecosystem which.
Hmm.
You know, customers hate so.
Yeah, I mean,
Autodesk is doing that as well to some
extent.
Everybody's trying to do this and I
always, you know,
Yeah.
I thought that's not very attractive for
customers because nobody wants to put all
their eggs in one basket really.
But for the UPE,
it's actually quite appropriate, you know,
to the idea of.
Mm.
You know one entry point and and widgets
and the fact that you know our our
suppliers are are are making more and
more kind of web-based tools or you know
maybe ACC needs to appear inside that
framework and you just have a small
Yeah.
toolbar at the top you know from UPE.
Um, please, I was going to just ask you,
what do you think about the how this
I have a different opinion actually.
So for me,
I would like to maybe step back a little
should work?
bit.
I'm not too focused on what it looks like
OK.
necessarily at this point.
I think it's a bit early to try to tackle
the visual aspect and all of that.
I was more and that's what I tried to
Hmm.
start with on the what, you know,
these different features.
Features and once we have these different
capabilities,
Yeah.
because I think there is so much to cover,
you can't possibly cram everything in one
use interface.
So I believe in depending who you are and
what you do on the project,
if you are one of the persons who is
supposed to work on this provisioning or
deprovisioning.
Sort of control plane.
Then you probably have a dedicated page
that most engineers will never see
because it's not like everyone who is
Yeah, yeah.
going to be granted permission to go
ahead and provision an environment.
So that is going to be its own thing I
guess.
It might well be served by the same UP
web application,
but it would be like a reserved page
altogether.
A reserved module for the engineers who
are working on the project.
Definitely.
I think there should be some sort of
landing page where you can see the
different applications depending on what
discipline you are identified as,
and all of this data is kind of already
in our.
Azure Entra ID.
We have a lot we can derive from where
people are sitting some capability.
We don't need to necessarily go and tag
Mhm.
everyone,
but having a bunch of tools that you
expect a certain person to work with.
With.
And also having the context of the
project. So if I'm like, I don't know,
landscape architect and I work at the
moment on let's say five different
projects,
I want this like maybe a drop down.
You know at the top with all of the
projects that I work with and I can
select OK now I'm gonna work on this
project and when I do that the context of
my application changes and if I start
maybe some application or I'm already
injecting this is the project ID for this
project.
So if I wanna open ACC or if I wanna open
AutoCAD,
maybe it takes me directly to this
project and it can seed the environment
with the project context.
So some sort of launcher.
That allows you to select which project
you want to work on,
but you can maybe have also an aggregated
view when it comes to your schedule if
you want to see you know how am I doing
with my time,
my deadlines and all of that.
But now we are leaning more into the
planning delivery aspect of it.
So it's all about what do we want to
prioritize and what and yeah,
more of the back end,
how things will look. I mean, yeah,
maybe we have to do that because that's
what.
People relate to I'm more of a back end
person,
so I think more in terms of what needs to
be there to happen. But yeah,
Building books. Yeah, I built. Yeah, I'm.
I appreciate it's good to have also a
presentation to get some buy in, you know.
It's it's a good it's a good team with
this back end and and and front end focus
because yeah that's exactly what's needed.
I I agree you know the the UI kind of
comes later but.
Um, one thing.
That it helps to, let's say, get buy-in,
you know,
on this is like imagine this is how
you're running the project.
Yeah, yeah, I get that.
But I think what you described is
actually pretty close to the 3D
experience idea. You know,
you have a contextual dashboard.
Yeah, no.
Role, you know, role based.
If you're a project manager will show you
or if you're an admin,
you know will show you predominantly the
tools you need.
If you're an architect on a project,
that will show you a different view and I
think it is good.
Mm.
We we should think about, you know,
what is the experience of using this
upfront,
because sometimes that can determine a
lot about the architecture. But yeah,
I I think that was a good discussion to
Um.
have, at least to put in our minds.
Yeah,
maybe it makes sense to discuss how we
can collect and integrate our results of
our discussion in the chart. Oliver,
I think that we can continue use your.
Your file? Yeah, that's.
Yeah, exactly. You did.
You did post some points last week and we
should definitely address those. So yeah.
Quick question,
do we need like a common working space to
No.
put these files and our discussions?
Right.
So I started actually and I I'm sorry
because I I forgot to to communicate to
that David. But yes, this files I was,
Open.
I mean it's not so much for now.
I can share it again what we were looking
at last week. So this brainstorming.
Data.
Actually I have put it in a very minimal
Git repository that I can actually expose
this as a wiki and I'm currently hosting
OK.
it inside Azure DevOps and I think I can
give you some access to this.
And send you a link and you can tell me
if you if you are able to to access so I
OK,
I I should have a ADO like a full access
think.
to that because I'm a product manager,
so I haven't tried it yet, but I I should.
Yeah.
I can, I can, yeah,
try to fix that quickly and see if I'm
able actually to to set that up because I
think.
Is it in? Is it in Azure?
OK and maybe we have some kind of tool
for work with the MD files in Azure or we
have to use Visual Studio Codes for
modify this. Oliver,
what do you think is it?
Yeah,
maybe maybe this is a bit too code
oriented.
I don't know if if you because I started
like this using like this repo and you
know just basic MD file that can be
No.
rendered.
But for maybe you know docs or or
whatever,
Uh, OK.
we could also have like a SharePoint or
something.
No, no, no.
I I I see that it's suggested in a text
file. We can modify. Yeah, yeah,
we can modify in text format, yeah.
This is just text, yeah, and I can.
I think I can create a here wiki.
I can probably add create a project wiki
or publish code as wiki.
Mm-hmm.
I think that's what you do.
And then I'm supposed to pick a was it a
Mhm.
folder?
Oh yeah, I think it does it.
Yeah,
I think that it's a great idea that we
can publish our transcriptions and
recordings of the session and another
point that I can try to extract text from
our conversation and also try to use LOM
for summarize and maybe get some.
Kind of yeah comments and that we can use
for integrating to the this this diagram.
Mm.
So we we need to maybe we also need to
discuss the the principles here how we're
M.
going to work in and integrate our ideas
into the document.
And how we can represent this finally to
the and other people. That's also ideal,
Um.
but we can use MD for now as a as a
source file.
Yeah.
And then finally once we will discuss and
integrate all our ideas,
we can transfer this to the PowerPoint
presentation or I don't know anything.
Else just to represent this for the
another users, yeah.
Mm.
I wanted to show you something.
That's.
Oh.
Yeah, go ahead.
So just so you know,
because it's it's going on there,
Sure.
can I share my screen a second?
It's it's good we do this admin stuff.
Yeah, yeah, go ahead.
So I I was very frustrated that the
information about UP is like not very
accessible.
It's it's spread out all over the place.
So I I learned this from the last two
jobs.
Hmm.
The the previous start-up was using
Notion and this is something called
Microsoft Loop which is like a copy of of
Notion.
Mhm, no.
And basically I I put you know I I will
put everything in here for for my team at
least.
It might be good if we just combine
together, but.
Mhm.
Yeah.
Absolutely. I mean,
we can use this as well.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So this is like the intention of this is
I will share this not with all ramble but
Mhm.
with IDT leads head of DDP at that level
so that you know we have here like what
is UPE?
I've got something about the the
governance, the scope.
The reason I did this is I have to
deliver a road map next Wednesday for UPE,
Yeah.
which is like backwards.
I'm not really in a position to give a
road map.
It it's a yeah, it's really short.
But I started to, yeah,
I started to make this multi generational
platform plan. It's it's basically covers.
If you look at these rows,
it's like what's the platform state,
what's the underlying technology so.
Mhm.
You know,
something about the platforms we use.
Mm.
Microsoft is in here,
information backbone process and
standards governance and then the core
UPE capabilities.
I actually took what we did on the last
session and I've, you know,
I've got some of those things in here.
Then I'm going to make sure the
requirements are from the GPAS here.
The idea is they they add their
requirements there.
I don't need to chase them if that works.
And then like I'm using this for the
Awesome.
project,
basically a sort of project management of
the whole thing.
So we could and like technical strategy
and architecture is more or less what
It's.
we've been working on.
So I could just give you access to that
and we can start to add.
We could just put a link to your MD file
in there.
Yeah, definitely I can.
I I was experiencing some issues now,
No, that's.
but I'll fix that and then it will be
actually published.
So I can give you a link even and if you
go there,
Yeah, that's fine.
I think everyone should be able to to
view it, not necessarily edit,
but at least they will be able to to
consume it.
Mhm. OK.
Yeah, I mean,
I my team is not very technical,
the people who report to me and I kind of
consider you guys like as the solution
architects, like so far unofficial,
but that that's how I consider you sort
of in the team.
Mm.
And um.
Yeah.
Yeah,
so maybe I just give you access to this
and we can use this like a wiki.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's very similar to confluence concept.
Yeah.
Yeah, Confluence,
Confluence and and Notions is very
Similar now.
similar and you know everything is nice
because you can it's fully integrated in
the Microsoft. So you can turn this,
you can turn each thing into like into a
Microsoft.
component and then you can share an
e-mail and.
Teams and chats and it's it's the same
thing referred to behind the scenes.
Mhm.
It's like database approach to text.
Let's use this.
I think it's awesome because I I I heard
Yeah.
about it,
but I have never had a chance to really
play with it, so yeah, happy to to use it.
No, no, it's very powerful thing. Yeah.
And this is another good idea that I
don't know if we can connect this to the
Microsoft Teams schedule scheduler or or
something like that just to have Kanban
board and we can use these for.
Yeah.
Or like a sprint sessions. Yeah,
we have a not now maybe,
Yeah.
but in the future,
once we will get some dedicated tasks,
we can define who will do of what and we
can integrate here as well these things.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's working.
Yeah,
this is the only problem I had with this
Very, very nice.
because you have Kanban as loop
components,
but it's it's not the same as the
Microsoft Tasks Planner. Sorry.
Mm.
Oh.
Uh, OK, OK, OK, OK.
So this is where Microsoft screwed up
like they you can actually take a planner
Mm.
Uh huh.
board and and paste it in here as a
component so that that works but we we
figure out.
But you can see it's got everything you
need. I shared it with you.
No.
Already this thing here.
Yeah, perfect. Perfect. Yeah,
that's really nice. OK,
Perfect. Thank you, David.
Alright.
so maybe then we can finalised for now.
So because I have to go, but.
No.
Yeah, and.
Yep.
And maybe Olivier,
I don't know if you had any next thoughts,
but we we could just delay till the next
session.
Yeah, yeah, we can take it.
I just wanted to react on on your point
I think it's good to do some of this
admin.
earlier about the GBA is that they should
feel included and not like something
global is going to be imposed on them and
I think it's a very,
Yeah.
very good concern to have,
but at the same time I think.
We should use use and ask them,
you know what what do you have good that
Yeah.
we can reuse because it's it's also about
taking what works and maybe reusing for
other GPS.
And and not they were around so.
So I.
Yeah,
the the final kind of piece of
information is I will run a a kick off
for the GPAS basically in Copenhagen the
week of the 16th of February.
Probably it's some people on site,
some people remote.
So I haven't planned it yet,
but that that's intention is to bring
those,
I think it's IDT directors and then the
the head office DDP will will invite
directly.
M.
And the idea is I think because there's
been some history,
we'll just try to restart the process and
say, OK, is everybody aligned?
Um.
Mm.
But that's, you know,
I said I I haven't really told too many
OK.
people,
but I think we should run what we're
doing in parallel because for me,
like I said,
it's basically like solution architecture
is being done and even if there's some
changes on the high level.
I don't think it changes these
fundamental capabilities and the the
architecture like,
so it's it's good that we get ahead with
Mhm.
this this work as well. But yeah, Andre,
good luck delivering your your things.
Yeah, thank you. Thank you guys. Yeah.
But I I think that it's really important
to have this retrospective session with
the ITS because then we could at least
refresh the status.
I understand what they did before because
Yeah.
I know that there are a lot of
initiatives internally in G Base and
nobody else can.
Explain what they are doing.
So we need to exchange and and
Yeah.
synchronize our understanding what we are
doing together. Yeah,
that's very important.
I fully agree with that, yeah.
Thank you. Yeah. Bye-bye.